DOCS-2543 iOS Monitoring > Crash Reporting and Error Tracking Beta (#604)
DataDog/dd-sdk-ios: docs/rum_collection/crash_reporting.md

---

> title: Crash Reporting (beta)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Crash Reporting and Error Tracking (beta)
```

kind: documentation
further_reading:
  - link: "https://github.com/DataDog/dd-sdk-ios"
    tag: "Github"
    text: "dd-sdk-ios Source code"
  - link: "/real_user_monitoring"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Datadog Real User Monitoring"
---

> Enable iOS crash reporting and error tracking to get comprehensive crash reports, and error trends in RUM UI. With this beta feature, you get access to 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enable iOS crash reporting and error tracking to get comprehensive crash reports and error trends in the RUM UI. With this beta feature, you get access to:
```

 - Aggregated iOS crash data and RUM crash attributes

>  - Desymbolicated iOS error reports

Reviewer 3: Agree, "symbolication" is more common word 👍

 - Trend analysis with iOS error tracking

> This guide follows the setup for iOS crash reporting and error tracking in the following steps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide follows the setup for iOS crash reporting and error tracking in the following steps:
```

>  - Add crash reporting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Crash reporting
```

>  - Desymbolicate error reports

Reviewer 4: same

 - Verify setup

### Add crash reporting 

If you have not set up the SDK yet, follow the [in-app setup instructions][1] or refer to the [iOS RUM setup documentation][2]. Upgrade to [dd-sdk-ios v1.7.0+][3] to get access to iOS crash reporting and error tracking. Update your initialization snippet to include crash reporting:

> 

Reviewer 3: As `DatadogCrashReporting` is a separate library, we also need instructions on adding it to the project. I'd rather prefer having a separate doc dedicated fully to `Datadog` and `DatadogCrashReporting` installation - there are many nuances we could additionally explain. Dependencies installation on iOS is very diversed, sometimes tricky and never seamless 🙁 , that's why most other products have dedicated content for this.

For now, we could just mention it shortly here and we could discuss providing separate installation doc later:

> Add `DatadogCrashReporting` dependency to your project. If you use Cocoapods use `pod 'DatadogSDKCrashReporting'`. For SPM and Carthage `DatadogCrashReporting` is available with `dd-sdk-ios`.
> ```
> | Package manager            | Installation method                                                                         |
> |----------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
> | CocoaPods                  | `pod 'DatadogSDKCrashReporting'`                      |
> | Swift Package Manager      | link `DatadogCrashReporting` module                   |
> | Carthage                   | use `DatadogCrashReporting.xcframework`               |
> ```

Reviewer: +1, am happy to scope out this doc work and create a DOCS ticket in Jira when I'm back from PTO!

```

> Datadog.initialize(

Reviewer 4: i think we also need to add `import DatadogCrashReporting` line here

> Datadog.initialize(

Reviewer 3: As our crash reporting is a separate library, it needs `import`:
```suggestion
import DatadogCrashReporting

Datadog.initialize(
```

    appContext: .init(),

>     trackingConsent: .pending,

Reviewer 3: I'd rather use `.granted` or just `trackingConsent` variable that the user might declare on their end. This would be more unified with [what we state in existing docs](https://docs.datadoghq.com/real_user_monitoring/ios/?tab=us#setup). If using `.pending` and just blindly pasting this snippet into code, all data will be tracked, but nothing will be sent.

    configuration: Datadog.Configuration
    .builderUsing(

>         rumApplicationID: "APP_ID",
>         clientToken: "CLIENT_TOKEN",
>         environment: "ENVIRONMENT"

Reviewer 3: To unify with [existing docs](https://docs.datadoghq.com/real_user_monitoring/ios/?tab=us#setup):
```suggestion
        rumApplicationID: "<rum_application_id>",
        clientToken: "<client_token>",
        environment: "<environment_name>"
```

    )
    .trackUIKitActions()
    .trackUIKitRUMViews()
    .enableCrashReporting(using: DDCrashReportingPlugin())
    .build()
)
Global.rum = RUMMonitor.initialize()
```

> ### Desymbolicate reports

Reviewer 4: same

> If your mobile iOS source code is symbolicated, upload your dSYM file to Datadog so that your different stack traces can be desymbolicated. For a given error, you can get access to the file path, the line number, as well as a code snippet for each frame of the related stack trace.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If your iOS error is desymbolicated, upload your dSYM file to Datadog so that your different stack traces can be symbolicated. For a given error, you can get access to the file path, the line number, as well as a code snippet for each frame of the related stack trace.
```

i guess you didn't mean "source code" here

#### Install Datadog CI

> If you haven't already, install [Datadog CI][4] through NPM or Yarn. The package is under [@datadog/datadog-ci][5]. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you haven't already, install the [Datadog CI][4] through NPM or Yarn. The package is under [@datadog/datadog-ci][5]. 
```

```sh
# NPM
npm install --save-dev @datadog/datadog-ci

# Yarn
yarn add --dev @datadog/datadog-ci
```

If you need `datadog-ci` as a CLI tool instead of a package, you can run it with [`npx`][6] or install globally:

```sh
# npx
npx @datadog/datadog-ci [command]

# NPM install globally
npm install -g @datadog/datadog-ci

# Yarn v1 add globally
yarn global add @datadog/datadog-ci

> ```

Reviewer 4: i think we can keep it shorter than that.
most of the cases `npx` should be enough (`npm install/yarn add` can even cause problems/confusion)

instead of `Install Datadog CI` + `Upload dSYM files` + `Verify setup`, we can put a `Using Datadog CI` section:
```
# Using Datadog CI

export DATADOG_API_KEY="<API KEY>"

// if you have a zip file containing dSYMs
npx @datadog/datadog-ci dsyms upload appDsyms.zip

// if you have a folder containing dSYMs
npx @datadog/datadog-ci dsyms upload /path/to/appDsyms/

For more info, please visit https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-ci/blob/master/src/commands/dsyms/README.md
```

what do you think? @maxep @ncreated

Reviewer 3: Does 
```
npx @datadog/datadog-ci dsyms upload ...
``` 
come with any overhead when compared to following?
```
datadog-ci dsyms upload ...
```
I'm wondering if using `npx` from Build Phase would be same performant as using the tool directly (after installing it globally with `npm`).

Reviewer 4: even if there is overhead, it is negligible (i don't notice it).
but one of our iOS customers had problems with installing it globally due to a permission issue in their local. 
that's why i think `npx` way could be the best option for iOS devs.

#### Upload dSYM files

**This command runs only in macOS.**

> To begin with ensure you have `DATADOG_API_KEY` in your environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, ensure you have `DATADOG_API_KEY` in your environment.
```

```bash
# Environment setup
export DATADOG_API_KEY="<API KEY>"
```

> Note: To configure the tool to use EU endpoint define `DATADOG_SITE` environment variable to `datadoghq.eu`. To override the full URL for the intake endpoint define the `DATADOG_DSYM_INTAKE_URL` environment variable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**: To configure the tool to use the EU endpoint, set the `DATADOG_SITE` environment variable to `datadoghq.eu`. To override the full URL for the intake endpoint, define the `DATADOG_DSYM_INTAKE_URL` environment variable.
```

> Use the `upload` command to upload dSYM files in your derived path

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `upload` command to upload dSYM files in your derived path:
```

```bash
datadog-ci dsyms upload ~/Library/Developer/Xcode/DerivedData/
```

In addition, some optional parameters are available:

> * `--max-concurrency` (default: `20`): number of concurrent upload to the API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `--max-concurrency` (default: `20`): Number of concurrent uploads to the API.
```

> * `--dry-run` (default: `false`): it will run the command without the final step of upload. All other checks are performed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `--dry-run` (default: `false`): The command runs without the final upload step. All other checks are performed.
```

If your app has bitcode enabled, download your app's dSYM files from [App Store Connect][7].
They come in the form of a zip file, named `appDsyms.zip`. Run `datadog-ci` by pointing to the zip file.

```bash
datadog-ci dsyms upload ~/Downloads/appDsyms.zip
```

### Verify setup

To verify this command works as expected, you can trigger a test run and verify it returns 0:

```bash
export DATADOG_API_KEY='<API key>'

// at this point, build any project in Xcode so that it produces dSYM files in Derived Data path
// assuming your Derived Data path is ~/Library/Developer/Xcode/DerivedData/

yarn launch dsyms upload ~/Library/Developer/Xcode/DerivedData/
```

> Successful output should look like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Successful output resembles:
```

---
title: Crash Reporting and Error Tracking (beta)
kind: documentation
beta: true
further_reading:
  - link: "https://github.com/DataDog/dd-sdk-ios"
    tag: "GitHub"
    text: "dd-sdk-ios Source Code"
  - link: "/real_user_monitoring"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Learn how to explore your RUM data"
---
## Overview

<div class="alert alert-info"><p>Crash Reporting and Error Tracking is in beta.</p>
</div>
Enable iOS crash reporting and error tracking to get comprehensive crash reports and error trends in the RUM UI. With this beta feature, you have access to:

 - Aggregated iOS crash data and RUM crash attributes
 - Symbolicated iOS error reports
 - Trend analysis with iOS error tracking

### Add crash reporting 

If you have not set up the SDK yet, follow the [in-app setup instructions][1] or refer to the [iOS RUM setup documentation][2]. Upgrade to [dd-sdk-ios v1.7.0+][3] to get access to iOS crash reporting and error tracking. 

> Add DatadogCrashReporting dependency to your project. If you use Cocoapods use `pod 'DatadogSDKCrashReporting'`. For SPM and Carthage DatadogCrashReporting is available with dd-sdk-ios.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the `DatadogCrashReporting` dependency to your project. For Cocoapods, use `pod 'DatadogSDKCrashReporting'`. For SPM and Carthage, `DatadogCrashReporting` is available with `dd-sdk-ios`.
```

| Package manager            | Installation method                                                                         |
|----------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| CocoaPods                  | `pod 'DatadogSDKCrashReporting'`                      |

> | Swift Package Manager      | link `DatadogCrashReporting` module                   |
> | Carthage                   | use `DatadogCrashReporting.xcframework`               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Swift Package Manager      | Link the `DatadogCrashReporting` module                   |
| Carthage                   | Use `DatadogCrashReporting.xcframework`               |
```

    trackingConsent: .granted,
    configuration: Datadog.Configuration
    .builderUsing(
        rumApplicationID: "<rum_application_id>",
        clientToken: "<client_token>",
        environment: "<environment_name>"
    )
    .trackUIKitActions()
    .trackUIKitRUMViews()
    .enableCrashReporting(using: DDCrashReportingPlugin())
    .build()
)
Global.rum = RUMMonitor.initialize()
```

### Symbolicate reports using Datadog CI

If your iOS error is unsymbolicated, upload your dSYM file using [Datadog CI][@datadog/datadog-ci][5] to symbolicate your different stack traces. For any given error, you have access to the file path, the line number, as well as a code snippet for each frame of the related stack trace. 

```sh
export DATADOG_API_KEY="<API KEY>"

// if you have a zip file containing dSYMs
npx @datadog/datadog-ci dsyms upload appDsyms.zip

// if you have a folder containing dSYMs
npx @datadog/datadog-ci dsyms upload /path/to/appDsyms/
```

**Note**: To configure the tool to use the EU endpoint, set the `DATADOG_SITE` environment variable to `datadoghq.eu`. To override the full URL for the intake endpoint, define the `DATADOG_DSYM_INTAKE_URL` environment variable. 

> If your application has Bitcode enabled, download your app's dSYM files on [App Store Connect][7]. Read more about dSYM command at https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-ci/blob/master/src/commands/dsyms/README.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your application has Bitcode enabled, download your app's dSYM files on [App Store Connect][7]. For more information, see [dSYM][8].
```

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/rum/application/create
[2]: /real_user_monitoring/ios
[3]: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-sdk-ios/releases
[4]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-ci
[5]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@datadog/datadog-ci
[6]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/npx

> [7]: https://appstoreconnect.apple.com/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[7]: https://appstoreconnect.apple.com/
[8]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-ci/blob/master/src/commands/dsyms/README.md
```

---

> title: Crash Reporting and Error Tracking (beta)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Crash Reporting (beta)
```

---

> title: iOS Crash Reporting

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: iOS Crash Reporting and Error Tracking
```

kind: documentation
beta: true
further_reading:

>   - link: "real_user_monitoring/error_tracking/ios"
>     tag: "Documentation"
>     text: "Track iOS errors"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - link: "real_user_monitoring/error_tracking/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Get started with Error Tracking"
```

  - link: "/real_user_monitoring"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Learn how to explore your RUM data"
---
## Overview

> <div class="alert alert-info"><p>iOS Crash Reporting and Error Tracking is in beta. Upgrade to [dd-sdk-ios v1.7.0+][3] to get access.</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-info"><p>iOS Crash Reporting and Error Tracking is in beta. Upgrade to <a href="https://github.com/DataDog/dd-sdk-ios/releases">dd-sdk-ios v1.7.0+</a. to get access.</p>
```
